So with all the base set up out of the way, let's now finally create our first web component, our first
custom element
and for that, in the tooltip.js file, I will create a new class.
Now class is a built-in feature built into Javascript,
it's relatively new, was added with ES6 which is simply a specific Javascript version you could say
and classes allow us to build blueprints for Javascript objects
and it's such a blueprint that we will end up wire up our own custom.html
tag. Now you can give that class any name you want and I'll name it tooltip
and now here's one important part. To be usable as a custom element,
you need to extend something with the extends keyword which means you have to build your class based
on some other base class
and here, we will use a base class that's built into the browser, we'll use the HTML element class here.
Now this is a class, an object built into the browser not defined by us and we extend that and every
custom element has to extend that,
it's still an independent, an autonomous custom element though, I will show you extended built-in
elements later, there you will not extend the HTML element but more specific versions of it.
If you extend this, you have a basic vanilla green field HTML element you build on your own which does
not depend on any built-in element,
this is simply a base element you always need to extend.
And now in here, you will put all the logic that makes up your custom element,
the question just is, what does this mean,
put all the logic in there?
Well let's say this tooltip component should in the end show us a tooltip button, a tooltip icon
and when we hover over that icon, we want to present a tooltip to the user. For this, we can define a couple
of things in this custom element to make this work
and the first thing we can add is a constructor. A constructor is also a default method name which is detected
by Javascript and Javascript will automatically execute this method,
so this function inside of a class whenever this class is instantiated, which means whenever a new object
based on that class is created and later, these new objects will be our own custom HTML tags in the
index.html file. We haven't added them yet,
we'll do so later.
For now let's start simple and let's simply add a console log statement here,
it is working and this should theoretically be output in the console whenever a new tooltip class is
created or a new object.
Now this is just a Javascript class,
how can we now create our own HTML tag?
For that, we use another object that is built into Javascript and that's the custom elements object. This is
an object which allows us to register our own custom elements and we do this by using that define method
here,
so this is a function on this object which you can execute, all built into Javascript. This define method
takes at least two arguments,
the first one is a string
and there, you define your own HTML tag.
Now there are some rules for that tag name, for example
it has to be a single word which has to consist of at least two parts separated by a dash,
so my-tooltip is a valid name, just tooltip alone is not. The reason for that rule is that all
built-in
HTML elements like button or P or H1's are single words and by forcing you to have double words so
to say, you are forced to not accidentally overwrite one of the built-in elements,
also possibly future added elements.
So therefore you have to have a dash in that name and it has to be a dash, an underscore is not allowed
for example,
so it has to be a dash and therefore here we could have my-tooltip.
Now the prefix here at the beginning is totally up to you, it can be my-tooltip, it could be tooltip-tooltip
but in reality, you want to choose a prefix here which kind of guarantees that your web component, your
custom element has a unique tag so that if the users using your custom elements in their app because
maybe you share them with the web, so that users using your custom elements have a very low chance of
having clashing custom elements from different libraries.
Therefore actually my-tooltip is not that great,
often you use your company name there or a shortcut for your company name like acad for Academind
in my case, in your case it should be your company or your initials like ms for Maximillian Schwarzmuller in
my case. So I will go with uc for udemy course
but in the end, choose a prefix here which combined with the part after it, kind of guarantees that
this is a unique name.
So this is the HTML tag chosen now,
by the way, you can also have multiple dashes and multiple parts, at least one dash needs to be included.
The second argument you pass to define then is your Javascript class that holds the logic for this
custom element,
so in our case this is the tooltip class here. So this class we define up here,
we pass this as a second argument. With that, we're telling Javascript hey whenever you detect this HTML tag
in an HTML file, you want to instantiate this class, you want to create a new object based on that class
and you want to use that object for all the logic behind that custom element. And now with that and this
tooltip.js file being imported here, we can actually add the uc-tooltip element here in the body of our
index.html file and it will not do much, it should print this though.
So now let's save both files,
make sure you don't forget that
and then let me simply run this by double clicking the index.html file.
Now we'll not see anything on the page because we haven't added any visuals
but if you open your developer tools, under view, developer, developer tools or with the shortcut you
find there, then you should be able
to open the console part there and you can ignore the error
you'll be getting,
you should see it is working though.
This shows, this proves that this code here runs and it can only run when an object is created based
on this class,
we never do that but we define our own element and therefore, this element has to be responsible for
this code running and indeed, it is.
Now to get rid of this error,
there is one rule we have to follow when creating our own elements and adding a constructor,
you always have to call super first in there. This is a built-in method you can call inside of a class which
will execute the constructor of the base class
you're extending and this is required. So if you add super here and you then reload this page, you'll not
see this error again,
clear your console before reloading to make sure that you clear all past errors.
So this is our first custom element added,
obviously it's not doing anything useful but we have our own working HTML tag.
Now we can start adding more logic to it.